As much as the infomercial that is CNBC
wants to convince you that everything's
great in the economy is is just clearly
not. I can make a pretty strong argument
that public companies will actually
benefit from the tariff regime. This is
a full contact version of distressed
investing. Acquire assets that are
troubled, reimagine what they could and
should be, and then apply force to make
that happen.
Andrew, I think you and I have talked
about doing this for 5 years. On and
off, I think that's right.
>> You don't do this a lot or ever? I
don't. I I love the category of guests
that are the first and only interviews
of this type, and so I'm so excited to
do it with you. And I'm especially
excited because your style is so
distinctive.
And we'll talk about a million things
related to how you invest and your your
personal story in getting here. But I
thought a framing exercise that would be
great starting place would be for you to
describe this notion that you have of
the K-shaped economy. Yeah. You do
something that's very very specific, and
we're going to talk about all aspects,
but I want to start broad. So, tell us
what the K-shaped economy is from your
perspective. Everybody in the
US economy, at least, has this
underlying sense that there are some
parts of our economy that are doing
exceptionally well.
But at the same time, they have this
internal notion that there are other
parts that are just worse than it seems.
That there's a nagging slowness or a
lagging nagging underperformance to the
economy in
broad areas. They can't quite put their
finger on it because they look at CNBC
and Bloomberg, and they read the Wall
Street Journal, and there's green arrows
in the ticker tape economy. Those
companies and
those wealthy individuals who have
access to capital, who have access to
resources,
and can drive, you know, unbelievable
profits and great outcomes. But there's
a broad part of the economy, and I think
we see this in the political sector
being expressed pretty acutely.
There's broad pieces of the economy that
are just dissatisfied with their
earnings power, with their ability to
benefit from the promise of the American
economic system.
That discrepancy, I think, is really
hard for people to understand. But when
we say K-shaped economy, it immediately
resonates with people because they see
it themselves. They feel it in real
time.
>> Yeah. They understand intuitively that
there are those who are having fabulous
success, but they also understand but
that there are people and companies that
are just not getting their piece of the
pie. There's this amazing data set that
you've just spent time exploring. I want
you to explain the data set and then all
the findings. But it's What I want you
to focus on is So, if you think about
the K-shape, we all know the upper part.
It's the S&P 8 or as we're calling it
now, you know, fang stocks or whatever,
AI companies. Like We know the story
that's going well. Right. Um so, maybe
talk about this investigation that
you've done recently about what's going
less well and why and what you learned.
Well, I'll start with, you know, at
Marble Gate, we focus on the middle
market. And the reason we focus on the
middle market is A, it's like 1/3 of US
economy. And by the way, over time, it
has represented, you know, something
north of 2/3 of all restructurings,
bankruptcies, etc.
So, it's the area of the most, let's
say, action. It's also the area of the
economy people know the least amount
about. Uh the companies there don't file
publicly their financial statements.
They typically aren't listed on stock
exchanges. So, the only people who
really have an insight into how the
middle market is doing
are individual lenders to it, to
individual companies, or individual
owners of individual companies.
And so, a lot of the talk about the
middle market tends to be anecdotal. It
tends to be self-referential. It's
inferred, but there's not a great data
set that gives us a good insight into a
broad section of the US middle market.
A good friend of mine
ran a company called Rapid Ratings.
Rapid Ratings does credit counterparty
risk assessment for
like the Fortune 500. So, they'll assess
the supply chains, the vendor
relationships, trade relationships of
large companies.
They rate those their vendor
relationships and other supply
relationships,
and create a financial health score
that then that Fortune 500 company uses
to determine terms of trade and how
they're going to deal with that supplier
or trade counterparty. We worked with
them taking that anonymized data and
winnowing it down to the US middle
market. And for us, that's companies
between 100 and 750 million of total
enterprise value.
And we said, "Okay, let's strip out
everything that isn't like a US company
with those characteristics." We were
left with a data set of just over 1,200
companies.
We've been looking at this data now for
several years. We measured it pre-COVID
period and then over the past 3 or 4
years.
In those 3 or 4 years post-COVID, what
we've seen is a real decline in the
earnings power in the US middle market.
Now, we look at a lot of factors. We
look at EBITDA. We look at margins.
We're looking at pure cash flow. We're
looking at leverage and liabilities. And
then importantly, we focus on
interest coverage because
look, at the end of the day, companies
can remain insolvent for a long time,
but
you know, my first boss on Wall Street
used to say, "Nothing so focuses the
mind like a coupon payment."
And um
that that is very true. When you have to
make that contractual payment that is
I'll say, generally speaking,
non-negotiable,
um
you get to a point where you have to
make a hard decision about do I need to
restructure or can I persist?
When we looked at the data set over
time, we've seen a few like important
characteristics. The middle market
EBITDA essentially deteriorates every
year. It just gets worse and worse. Now,
we compare that data versus uh public
filers and and
we look at the Russell 3000.
So, in that same period, those companies
have public market access. So, they tend
to be better capitalized. They have um
you know, let's say, broader management
teams.
They have more access to resources.
Those companies have done persistently
and consistently better.
Uh EBITDA is strong and growing.
Margins are steady, generally in the
mid-teens. In the middle market, EBITDA
is
challenged. I mean, there's no other way
to put it. Um I think over the
measurement period in the most recent
data,
uh EBITDA has been down sort of 20, 25%
since 2019. That's a really a difficult
sort of place to exist.
Margins in the middle market are also
much much much narrower. So, if the
public market, on average, has a
mid-teens starting EBITDA margin,
in the middle market, we're talking
about mid-single digits. So, there's
just less room for maneuvering, less
room for error.
Uh those companies do also tend to have
um
structurally constrained or more
difficult balance sheets. So, they're
strapped up more by their lender.
Middle market tends to access bank
finance rather than, let's say, broadly
syndicated loans or private credit,
which will have more flexible covenants
and characteristics to the credit
agreements. So, it's a tighter, less
flexible capital structure they're
starting with.
When we look at cash flow in those two
areas, we see net profits after tax in
the public market strong, persistently
growing.
When we look in the middle market, we
see that um that net profits after tax
is down uh almost 200% over the
measurement period. So, that is it is
consistently negative over the past 2
years.
Uh it's a troubling place for the middle
market. Like I said earlier, there's
this nagging feeling that everyone has
that there's trouble in the economy.
What we do in that data set is put some
numbers to that. We sort of can
illustrate to people, "Look, we
understand what you're seeing in the
ticker tape economy. We understand what
you see when you turn on Jim Cramer and
he's screaming about it's a buy buy
buy."
But we also understand that when you go
home at night and you're thinking about
the world, you have this feeling that
things are tough. There's a third of the
economy that has this like aggregate
problem. Yeah. I have three questions.
You can take them however you want. One
is, who owns these things? Like, who
owns the equity in these things? Um why
is this happening?
And like, what does it mean
prospectively? There's a
A, who owns them? It's a mix. Uh it
tends to be smaller sponsors,
families, some individuals.
Um
these are companies that
you know, a lot of the management teams
have grown up inside the companies. Um
Maybe they're families that control
them, maybe not. If they do have, you
know, professional management teams,
often times, you know, these are not
management teams that went through the
GE training program. Um as a
consequence, they're making
intuition-based decisions or pattern
recognition-based decisions. Uh they're
not sort of relying on what you and I
might think of as sort of
data-driven decision-making. Why is this
happening? Like, so, you get this hollow
It sounds like kind of like a hollowing
out of a third of the economy. Uh in
fact, that's the exact language we use.
And there's all this decline in EBITDA,
declining cash flow, interest burdens
that are higher, scary-sounding stuff.
Like, Right. what are If you had to
narrow down the couple of reasons for
what's driving that,
what do you think they are? I think
market power. So, the middle market
companies typically don't serve the end
consumer. Yep. They typically serve the
larger public company.
So, these larger public companies which
have pricing power with their customer
who tends to be the end consumer Yeah.
uh also have pricing power over their
supply chain. Mhm. So, they're pushing
costs um they're pushing financing down
onto those middle-market companies while
taking that margin. It's like a
corporate class system. It is. Yeah. I
mean, there's no other way to understand
it uh in that the rich are getting
richer and the poor are getting poorer.
Yeah. As again, I go back to you know,
we see this expressing itself in the
political sphere. um Because people are
looking for some kind of outlet, some
sort of expression of this frustration
because they feel it in their everyday
lives and their businesses and how they
go about work. These companies just have
fewer resources, they have less to stand
on and so they have less bargaining
power. What do you think it means? Like
what is this just an
inexorable trend that's going to keep
going and the rich are going to keep
getting richer? Uh
we'll talk about the workouts and
bankruptcies and all that fun stuff
next. But before we close the chapter on
what's going on
Yeah, what what's to be done about this
if anything? So, look, there's a few
different ways this can resolve itself,
but it probably will resolve itself with
a bang in some way.
Um now that bang can be a long drawn-out
you know, something that looks like um
you say the early 2000s where we had
just a
years of you know, persistent
restructuring across large portions of
the economy. Yeah.
It could also look like the late '80s,
early '90s where you know, we had a real
credit contraction uh as people dealt
with over leverage from the direct
lending crisis or some people call it
the S&L crisis of the late '80s, early
'90s.
Um that
sort of feels like we're the world we're
heading into. Uh there are other
scenarios you could imagine that are
more punctuated. Let me go back to what
I said earlier about debt service
coverage. Um interest coverage is a
funny problem because again, you got to
make that coupon payment. If you're
unable to make the coupon, uh you have a
couple of options. You can go to your
lender and try and work something out or
your ultimate resources, you can go
petition the courts for protection.
In the 2023 data, we saw that almost 25%
of the companies in the data set
couldn't make their debt service
coverage.
So, um surprise, surprise in 2024,
business bankruptcies hit like a 14-year
high.
Fast forward, the 24 data that we're
living with now in 25 showed that
another 20% of the data set
couldn't make their debt service
coverage. So, um based on the data we
see to date and the bankruptcies that
we've already seen in 2025, we would
expect 2025 to show persistent and
possibly higher number of business
bankruptcy filings. Yeah. Uh we're also
interestingly starting to see some
larger companies suffer that as well.
So, you know, it goes back to um you
know, as much as the infomercial that is
CNBC uh wants to convince you that
everything's great in the economy, it's
just clearly not.
>> Mhm.
You know, how do we resolve it? Um look,
I think there is uh there's broad-based
weakness in this economy. Um
We can spur growth.
You know,
sort of get everybody buying, everybody
that you know, there are some macro
things you could do. You could pump more
liquidity into the economy. Of course,
you risk an inflationary spiral which
we're probably
you know, on the cusp of again.
Uh
You can do some sort of wholesale debt
restructuring and get try to get through
it quickly. That would be recasting a
resolution trust company type idea.
I don't know that there's even the
beginning of the political will or
discussion to do that at the moment. So,
I sort of go to the meander solution is
way this probably goes where we just
slowly work through this over time and
we solve problems one by one. It's a
good time to ask for your definition of
distressed investing.
It's a great question. Like distressed
investing covers a lot of things. You
know, the the the term has been I would
say
um
abused in recent years. When I got into
the business, it meant buying the debt
stock of an individual company and then
exercising the rights and remedies under
the credit agreement to drive an outcome
that generally involves some amount of
operational improvement. Now look, back
when I got into the business, credit
agreements were tighter and so companies
got themselves into tougher spots
in a narrower range. So, um the
covenants were such that if your
performance started to decline, you
know, bat it back into the middle of the
fairway or deal with the problem. Today,
covenants are much more much wider and
as a consequence, when you violate a
covenant or get to a place where you
need to restructure one way or another
the business is just worse off generally
and needs a much bigger operational
reworking.
So, when we think about distressed
investing, it is provisioning capital
into difficult situations that are
capital constrained.
Now, some people look at distressed
investing as uh you know, when the
market pukes out, we're going to step in
and buy.
And watch it ride back up. That happens,
you know, every 10 years there's a big
puke out. That's a tough investment
strategy to prosecute.
>> Yeah. The reality is that the data is
pretty clear. In each and every year,
there is some portion of the economy
that is running at a two to three times
the average default rate in the system.
So, that is to say there's
several sectors, a handful of sectors
that have a much higher
um than average default rate. That can
be as a consequence of um
uh of sector risks or um some sort of
factor input that that input that
impacts broadly across that sector. Can
be a change in consumer preferences that
impact a number of companies, change in
government policy. What is it today just
like ground people in it like what are
the couple examples of those sectors?
>> Unfortunately today, it's everything.
The most acute is of course the tariff
risk.
>> Yeah. Um and by the way, we have some
data. We have some thoughts about what
that might look like for companies. Uh
but the indecision of tariffs Yeah, the
uncertainty. Yeah. That somebody said to
me recently, well, Christmas is
canceled.
Why is Christmas canceled? Well, you
have to put your orders in now. So, if
you're a business trying to make a
decision about what your Christmas book
is going to look like
>> Yeah. How do you even make that choice
today? I think there's lots of
challenges in the economy. There's lots
of things that you know, people are
having um having to make big bets where
you don't know which way anything's
going to go.
Are you going to be able to have your
supply chain continue to be in China?
Are we going to have a persistent trade
problem with them? Tariffs, our data
looks at again across the middle market
and then we look at the public market
and say, what are the likely impacts and
how does this work through the balance
sheet and what would you suspect
happens?
I can make a pretty strong argument that
public companies will actually benefit
from the tariff regime.
And you know, again, I'm going to assume
that the West Wing is um
is being thoughtful in its analysis and
its deal-making strategy and they've
probably come to a similar conclusion.
I think the Treasury Secretary speaks
pretty confidently uh and directly about
this and I agree with their assessment.
For the ticker-tape economy
the tariffs are not going to be
terrible. In fact, they could be
constructive.
For the middle market though, um
anything above like a 5 or 6% tariff
will have a devastating impact on margin
and consequently on the ability to
service their debt stock. So, um any
persistency to tariffs uh will be um
will will crush the US middle market.
>> And so, I like your definition of
distressed we talked about earlier which
is basically just like capital where
there's no supply of it.
>> That's right. Um and and so, just say
like a little bit more about what it's
what it feels like to do your style of
investing, maybe even this lay out a
little bit more about Marblegate and how
you prosecute things. Um because
obviously like this style one might be
really useful and important in this
workout that you're talking about. Um
but also for people that are, you know,
interested in returns, like could also
be a source of high returns, especially
if there's limited capital chasing it.
So, say a bit more about Marblegate and
what you do and and then we'll talk
about some fun examples. Marblegate
started in 2008, 2009. 2008, um my
business partner Paul Arway called me
up. He was at Bear Stearns. I was at
another distressed investing uh firm
called Epic Asset Management. And he
said, look, all great distressed
investment firms are born out of crises
and this one's ours.
And we sat down and talked about like
how would we go about building an
investment firm and how would we go
about accessing uh investment
opportunities in the distressed market.
Now, Paul and I had done a lot of
business together over the years and we
liked focusing on the same types of
businesses. We saw this middle market
area as being, you know,
wildly underinvested.
As we grew up in the business and I
oftentimes refer to Paul and I as the
youngest of the old group of distressed
investors, what we saw were um the
Oaktree's and the Apollo's and and those
folks who had sort of cut their teeth
investing in distressed getting bigger
and bigger and bigger.
And a lot of that mimicked or mirrored
the growth in the LBO market. Um you
know, we oftentimes refer to the LBO
business or the private equity business
as our manufacturing division um because
they will produce a certain amount of
problems
pretty consistently.
So, as the LBO's got bigger, uh a lot of
the investors who had been built to
invest in their problems similarly got
bigger.
But that left an entire portion of the
market just underinvested,
under-prosecuted, under-looked at,
under-analyzed. And we saw it as pretty
rich pickings.
So, when we sat around to build
Marblegate, we said, look, we're going
to focus on that middle market. Um at
the time, you know, we were convinced
that there was um
going to be good opportunity. We
couldn't have imagined that it would
persist with as much duration as it has.
Our focus uh in accessing that um is
around the US banking system. The middle
market continues to get most of its
capital out of the banking system. We
hear a lot about private credit and at
Marblegate we talk a lot to private
credit, think a lot about it, and have a
lot of views on it. Uh we think about
the broadly syndicated market also. We
think about all sort of forms of
corporate credit, but the reality is we
access most of our investment
opportunities out of the banking system.
We built Marblegate with the idea that
we would go talk to banks,
um source our product um directly from
them. So, we built a sourcing team and
our sourcing team goes out and talks to,
you know, hundreds of lenders um across
the United States. I like to say that we
are the number one buyer of steak
dinners in the middle market and in
middle America. We also um
built, of course, an analyst team. We
have in-house financial restructuring.
So,
today a lot of, you know, the folks that
call themselves distressed investors,
again, I I I view them as buying cheap
high yield and sort of
participating as pure financial
investors and uh portfolio traders. Um
But, they will outsource all of that
critical thinking. At Marblegate we say
there is no outsourcing of critical
thinking. And so, we think about the
financial restructuring in-house. We
also built an operational restructuring
team in-house as well.
Again, going back as Paul and I looked
at the market evolve, we saw the those
covenants widening and the businesses
deteriorating. And so, we knew that when
we were taking control of them or
inserting ourselves into their capital
structure and their ongoing operation
and resolution,
that we needed to bring to bear
resources. Now, there are some great
firms out there, FTI, Alvarez Alex
Partners that specialize in doing that.
You know, again, particularly on behalf
of the portfolio investors who are more
traders in this space than investors. Um
but A, those those firms are large, they
have large cost structures, and they're
generally more than a middle market firm
can bear.
>> And you're very much a roll up the
sleeves guy. Like like I think you've
had like personal security at times cuz
you're dealing with things that are
really hard. Like this is That's not
This is This is a full contact version
of distressed investing. And so, I want
to talk about like all aspects of it.
But but I want to start with maybe like
a story. So, the first the first story
you ever told me, I don't know if it's
the best one, but it's the first one you
told me and I remember it viscerally,
was you buying like some crazy percent
of the taxi medallions in New York City.
Can Can you tell that story just as like
a representative example of the sort of
thing that you do? My partner Paul came
into my office and said, "I'm talking to
a bank who wants to sell some
um loans against New York City taxi
medallions." And I said, "That is the
worst idea I've ever heard."
He said, "Okay." And
we went about our way. A few weeks later
he came back to my office and said, "You
know, I just spoke to that same bank
again and um they want to know if we
would be willing to look at those loans
against taxi medallions." Remains the
worst idea I've ever heard.
>> This is like peak Uber ascension. So, it
was exactly it was two 2016.
Uh and so, Uber had come to New York in
2015 in a big way and had made a huge
push into the market through '15 and
'16. Uh they were subsidizing every ride
and uh the real problem, by the way, and
this is super interesting,
there was this perception that they were
taking riders away from from taxis and
that was not at all the case. The data
was super clear. They were expanding
point-to-point car service in New York.
Um they were taking drivers away from
yellow.
And so, yellows were stacking,
parking themselves, not generating
revenue as a driver went to Uber. And
the driver was going to Uber
uh because Uber was subsidizing every
ride. So, the driver's earning power was
accelerating. Uh people were making
rational choices. By the way, more
people were switching into Uber from
other modes of transportation, bus,
um
uh private car service,
subway, because Uber was subsidizing New
York. Uh New Yorkers are the most
sophisticated, price sensitive consumers
in the world. They were getting uh brand
new cars cuz all the drivers were going
out and buying new cars. They're getting
brand new black cars and subsidized
service. New Yorkers were saying, "This
is a deal. Yeah, yeah, I'll do this
every day."
So, um Uber was having a tremendous
amount of success and they were pulling
those drivers away.
The interesting thing is when we started
doing our research and by the way, we
spent two years researching it uh before
we ever did anything. I mean, my
favorite party trick, actually, is um
uh as part of that
as part of that research
I became a uh New York City taxi driver.
And I still go out here. I I still go
out and and drive.
Um That's funny. Yeah. Well, you have to
stay connected to the market. But we we
spent two years researching the space.
Um a lot of time in Queens going garage
to garage, uh learning about the market,
learning about sort of how it works cuz
it's pretty complicated ecosystem, to be
honest. It's emerged over 100 years and
employs literally thousands of people in
New York City. It also is an important
on-ramp uh to American commerce for the
immigrant population. When I did my um
my taxi driver's license, you have to do
a pretty complicated and long set of of
uh classes. It's It's no London, but
it's still demanding and expensive. But,
the um I was the only native-born
American in the room. Uh everyone else
had sort of come to the United States in
search of a better opportunity.
Uh so,
it's an important spot for New York
commerce uh in particular. And by the
way, uh what people don't realize is the
bulk of New York City taxi medallions
are owned by individuals that are
driving the taxi. So, it's a small
business in and of itself.
By the way, pre-Uber coming to town, uh
taxi medallions had been worth over a
million dollars. They peaked at 1.2
million dollars. For one medallion? For
one medallion. And by the way, again, if
you look back um
and sort of look at it purely on a cash
flow basis and where interest rates were
and alternatives, not the craziest thing
to have happened. I mean,
you or I would never have done it, but
um
I can understand why somebody might have
made that decision. Again, not a
decision I would make,
but not the craziest thing.
Now, that being said, the average unpaid
principal balance of a taxi medallion
loan ended up being about $550,000.
So, the average taxi driver owed
$550,000
on their medallion loan. Crazy. It was
It was a lot of money.
So, we spent,
you know, we did a bunch of uh survey
work. Uh we came up with our own
understanding of what
uh an Uber driver's net earnings were.
And what also became pretty clear to us
is that um
Uber was taking advantage of an
information asymmetry. So, they
understood that a driver didn't really
understand the full picture of their
cost structure and that they were making
a very cash-based decision,
uh but they were pushing a lot of those
non-cash or non-immediate cash costs
onto the driver.
Uh they were taking those liabilities
on. And ultimately, when you adjusted
earnings for all of that, uh the driver
was really under-earning what they
should.
You also saw a lot of turnover in those
days because I think drivers were coming
to the conclusion over time that the
their own individual return on invested
capital wasn't sufficient. We sort of
started to understand that. In fact,
when I was out with a um 70-year-old
garage owner who I think had grown up as
a taxi driver, his his father I think
had bought medallions in the '30s,
he said to me, "Andrew, you know, the
reality is nobody's reinvented the
economics of driving a car yet. And
until that happens, taxis remain the
most durable cash flow in the system."
And over time we proved that out to
ourselves, at least. Um
we got we convinced ourselves and
obviously our investors that what was
available here um was uh an unbelievable
market that for lots of reasons had been
under-invested in terms of operations.
So, there'd been lots of leverage put
into the system. I would say that
the folks who had uh owned medallions
and operated fleets
had been extractive. So, they hadn't
been investing in the business, they
hadn't sort of treated the driver the
way they should. You know, I used to
begin every conversation with somebody
in the space the same way. Tell me who
your customer is.
Do you know what the answer was from
like 100% of them?
What?
Well, who would you say? I don't know,
the rider. Right? That was the answer
everybody gave.
>> Yeah.
I as the medallion owner have absolutely
no economic relationship with the rider.
The driver pays me. My customer is the
driver.
Everyone gave me the exact same answer.
They gave me the passenger as the
answer.
I said, "But
the driver pays you."
Uh well, okay, sure, I guess. Yeah. But
they weren't treating their customer
the right way. They were
being I don't abusive. Yeah. I mean, it
was uh it was obvious what was going on.
So, there's really negative
relationships in the industry. The
industry was as a consequence sort of
set up as combative.
Even though all this capital had gone in
and it was literally billions of dollars
of capital that had gone in. There were
13,587
New York City taxi medallions. And if I
told you what the average unpaid
principal balance was, the math pretty
easy.
>> Yeah. Right? So, you're talking about
billions of dollars of capital that had
gone in and by the way, fleet owners on
yachts and taking helicopter services
out to the Hamptons while the drivers
were struggling to make ends meet.
And it was it was just the worst setup
imaginable. Didn't you also at some
point go into some government office and
ask for some data set and they're like,
yeah, no one's ever asked for this
before. So, the TLC who's been a who's
like a great agency inside of city
government
and at the time the commissioner was
Meera Joshi who later went on to become
deputy mayor in New York. The current
TLC commissioner is David Do who's
terrific to work with.
But we went to the commissioner and
said, can we get some of the data you
have on the taxi market and Uber and
Lyft and all of these guys?
And she said, sure, you know, just put
in a foil request. We're happy to serve.
She said, but what are you looking for?
I said, well, all of it.
What do you mean all of it? I said,
everything. She said, nobody's ever
asked us for all So, she gave us like
terabytes and terabytes of data. We had
to Ride level data, right?
Ride by ride, the entire data set.
It was it was a lot of data. It was
we tried to load it into Excel. Excel
was like, you got to be joking me.
So, we have couple of data scientists on
staff at Marble Gate.
Sort of ingested the data into various
data
systems. And we started to cut it up and
what we found again, you know, there
were some immediate insights.
The one I mentioned earlier where
Uber wasn't taking rides, they were
taking drivers. That popped out
immediately. We also saw some really
interesting data
in when people were making choices to
take Ubers versus taxis. I think every
New Yorker has an algorithm in their
head. Time of day, where am I going,
what am I wearing, what's the weather,
what do I think the traffic pattern
looks like, day of the week. And they
say in that with that algorithm they
make a decision. Am I going to take a
taxi, an Uber, a bus, subway, a private
car, am I going to drive myself? They
are figuring that out real time.
What popped out really quickly was
if you were going to go east-west in
Manhattan, you're almost always going to
take a taxi.
If you were going to take
ride on a Saturday night from the Upper
West Side to TriBeCa for dinner, you're
probably going to call an Uber.
And when we looked at the data, I mean,
what I love about like data analysis in
companies and sectors is when you really
dig into it
The truth pops out.
>> And it's obvious. It's it makes sense.
You you relate to it intuitively. You
saw how New Yorkers were making
decisions. Exactly. And so you saw how
New Yorkers were making decisions. And
like I said earlier
it squared with the economic reality
that Uber's going to subsidize my Friday
night date. Great.
Let's do that.
So, um
how New Yorkers were making decisions,
how drivers were making decisions was
also super interesting because we could
track individual driver behavior.
And so we could tell successful driver
behavior looked
schematic. It was symmetrical. They were
following
almost predetermined patterns. Now, not
the same pattern. Each driver had their
own system that they had developed but
it was thoughtful and looked thoughtful
and looked intentional.
Drivers who were under earning looked
like a Rorschach test. It was just a
scattergram of behavior.
And as a consequence, they were under
earning what we thought they could and
should. By the way, fast forward later
when we set up our own operation, we ran
a bunch of experiments with drivers
where we said, look, you're likely to
make, let's say, $200 a day at that
point net.
We'll guarantee your $200. But we want
you to run an experiment with us. So, if
you will just follow these patterns of
behavior
>> see as the most profitable, yeah.
>> Right. We'll guarantee the 200. And by
the way, if you earn more than 200, keep
it. We ran dozens and dozens of
experiments. How many payouts did we
make? Tons of payouts above the 200.
Right. So, we paid nothing. The driver
always out-earned when they followed the
data-driven decision-making. I mean, my
favorite was the what I called the
NASCAR loop. So, the data showed that if
you picked up at the bottom of Broadway,
you were high probability, you know,
around sort of
Columbus Circle, you were
going to drop off somewhere north on
Broadway. I'm going to make the left
turn. Yeah. Because the data also showed
if you picked up at the top of Broadway,
you were going to drop off somewhere
midtown around the bottom of Broadway.
So, we just run that NASCAR loop.
Left-hand turns only.
And it turns out to be a super
profitable circuit.
And there's lots of pockets of
opportunity around New York. The other
thing by the way is the fleets did a
terrible job of telling their drivers
when there was a Knicks game.
Did a terrible job telling them when
there was
a Rangers game.
Terrible job telling when concerts were
going to be. All at MSG obviously. And
you know, I know you're a Knicks fan.
You've come out of
out of MSG and you wonder where the hell
are the cabs?
Uh
Don't they know there's a game letting
out? The answer is they didn't know
there was a game letting out.
And as I said to you earlier, most of
our
most of the drivers are not native New
Yorkers.
You know, we later on opened what we
call a taxi clubhouse.
I can go into why we opened it. Pretty
pedestrian reasons but it's been wildly
successful. In there we have TVs on our
our
drivers are soccer fans, football fans.
They don't pay a lot of attention to the
sports that drive American Americans or
New Yorkers.
So, there's just like a cultural divide.
They don't know all the time where to
go. The best drivers figure it out over
time and again, develop a system. We
sort of took all that data from the TLC
and we immediately got tons and tons of
insights. As we got invested into the
space
we started pulling more data. As we
built our own operation, we get more
data. All that data goes to data-driven
decisions. Because again, as I think
about distressed investing broadly, one
of the things we talk about is moving
companies. Earlier I said management
teams make
intuition or pattern recognition-based
decisions. We want to move everybody,
whether you're
middle market manufacturing company or
taxi driver to a data-driven decision.
Right? That data-driven decision has
more persistency to it. It has a higher
probability of being right because it's
informed.
It also you can push decisions down
where you're they're not top-driven,
they're operator-driven. And the
operator is going to use that data to
make the decision and where they need to
adjust around the edges, then they can
use their intuition or their pattern
based decision-making to uh
sort of shape it around the edges. But
we're starting from a better place. You
get this insight and all of a sudden it
goes from the worst idea you've ever
heard to like a maybe feasible. Talk
about the transaction or transactions to
buy into the into the space. So, a bank
has the loans. Your counterparty is the
bank and you get comfort with the value
of the medallions. And so then what do
you do? Like how what what are the
investing steps? Actually, our first
investment was um definitely I
knew at the time but clearly in
retrospect the riskiest trade that we
did. As we went around and talked to
banks,
they would say, well
hasn't been really any transactions.
Like many markets. Like one of the good
indication of when a sector is going to
or a company is going to tipple over is
it gets super illiquid in its securities
or loans or whatever.
The taxi market had gotten super
illiquid. There were no medallion
transactions happening. Buyers and
sellers moved too far apart, nothing
ends up happening.
One of the all-time great indicators of
when something is going to really
sharply move.
So, there'd been no transactions. And
the banks were saying to us, well, look,
there's no transactions happening.
We'll give you a discount because we
know it's not great out there. But we
think maybe $350,000
per medallion is where we would exit
them.
Not not going to pay that today. And and
we think you're going to have to
restructure large large portions of this
market. So, there's a lot of work and
time that's going to go into it. Both of
those things we're going to we and our
investors are going to need to be
compensated for.
So, we were walking around talking to
all these banks and really nobody wanted
to transact with us.
And then
you know, God smiled on me one day.
Guy by the name of Gene Friedman who the
post used to like to call the taxi king
of New York had gotten in a fight with
his lender which was Citibank and
Citibank had exercised remedies against
him, seized his collateral and we're
going to auction it off.
Now, the auctioneer was a guy
out in Brooklyn that we knew.
And we called him up and said, hey
do you have a stalking horse bidder for
these medallions? And by the way, it was
outright medallions, not loans, outright
medallions.
He said, stalking horse bidder?
We're going to go to the Airport
Marriott and open outcry this.
I said, listen, call the lender up and
tell them that I'll be be stalking
horse.
He said, okay, what price?
Now, I gave him a price that was way,
way, way below
$350,000.
>> you give him? Uh $150,000 per medallion.
Okay. He said well, they'll never do
that.
Well, but it's a free option. I'm the
backstop. We'll we'll do the open
outcry. Uh we just
we we're your backstop. Yeah.
So, he said okay, well, I'll call them
up.
About an hour later, he called me back.
He said, they won't do a penny less than
160.
So, uh I said great, you're done. Uh
we went through the uh auction. And the
way the auction rules worked, you kind
of had to buy all of the medallions, or
it really didn't satisfy the lenders'
needs.
And the truth was uh the combination of
the way we structured the bid and the
auction rules were such that it was
going to be really hard for anybody
other than Marblegate to win the
auction. So, we walked away with 48
outright medallions. But most
importantly, we had created a mark
that then we we then had sort of hand
delivered to every lender in the space.
Now, they had direct evidence of a
meaningful number of medallions
transacting at a at a level way below
where they had previously estimated it
would.
And by the way, we did that to them uh
at the very end of November, beginning
of December.
So, they're looking at a year-end mark
Yeah. that didn't feel so great.
>> Yeah.
Surprise, surprise, come January, the
conversation becomes pretty serious with
a number of the lenders we had talked
about. And they wanted to engage at much
more reasonable levels.
We ended up buying um the largest uh
portfolio available from a federally
chartered bank.
It's an important understanding when
you're dealing with banks what their
regulatory scheme is. Um state chartered
banks, credit unions, federally
chartered banks, they all have slightly
different ways they operate and how
they're regulated. Because at the end of
the day,
banks always make um decisions for three
reasons. Regulatory, regulatory, and
regulatory.
Uh they people think of banks as
economic actors, they're not. They're
regulatory actors.
So, um this compromised their regulatory
position. For a federally chartered
bank, those tend to be much larger
banks. Uh this was a very small piece of
their portfolio, and so they can more
quickly get to a place from an earnings
power impact and a balance sheet impact
that they would dispose of the portfolio
at a sharp discount.
So, we went to the federally chartered
banks, we went to the largest portfolio,
and began a negotiation with them.
Moved through that pretty quickly, and
took that portfolio over. That
automatically made us the largest
independent
lender into the space.
It also um
now you have multiple transactions. Uh
the largest group of lenders into the
space were the credit unions.
The credit unions faced with uh prospect
of a sharp decline in the asset value on
their balance sheets,
found themselves essentially insolvent
because um prior to 2015, or ultimately
2000, let's say 18, 19, when this part
of the story is happening,
taxi medallion loans were considered
gold. Because look, they are um remain
an important part of New York City's
infrastructure.
Uh they're important when you talk to
New York City, uh to the regulators, uh
to transportation department, city
planners, transportation consultants,
all of them point out New York City has
a hard time operating without taxi
medallions. Also, it's a meaningful
portion of the New York City budget.
So,
for all of those reasons, we felt like
um New York City would take a pretty
active role in uh supporting it. The
market understood that for years and
years. So, the haircut on a
credit union's loan
was next to nothing.
>> Yeah. If you were a credit union in New
York, you could not lend to the space.
It was so profitable.
Now, with the sharp decline in assets,
uh the NCUA, which is the FDIC of the
credit union space, essentially seized a
number of those credit unions. So,
it ended up that the largest lender to
the space was the federal government.
That allowed us to begin a conversation
with the federal government, with the
NCUA, about acquiring those assets.
It took a long time uh
for one really important reason. Uh the
NCUA wanted to make sure that the way we
were going to deal with
um the borrowers in the space and sort
of respected the dignity of the
borrower, uh that we were not going to
be rapacious.
All of these loans had personal
guarantees. Uh and so, drivers who had
levered up to buy a taxi medallion
uh
had really at risk their home, their
livelihood, everything. Uh and the NCUA
understood that we needed to be
commercial, but also wanted to make sure
that we weren't going to be abusive to
the borrowers. And you know, so they
spent a lot of time understanding
uh how we were
um
dealing with problems. Uh now,
a part of the story I left out earlier
is that you know, we ended up with 4,500
individual line items in this portfolio.
Prosecuting that is a just a huge lift.
Uh you have to send out bills every
month. You have to collect. You have to
call people when they don't pay. So,
there's a servicing aspect to this.
We went to speak to virtually every
servicer out there about, you know,
could they help us? And um the answer
for 97% of them was
absolutely not. We want nothing to do
with this. Uh
politically sensitive, there's uh you
know, tough space, tough borrowers. Our
borrowers will spend two, three months
out of the country, typically going back
to their home to spend time with family.
Just a setup that a lot of servicers
didn't want to take on. The servicers
who were even willing to have the
conversation, which there were only a
couple,
their pricing was ex-
itself extractive. They There was no way
we could do a deal. So, we actually
stood up
a servicer to service the space, which
today has almost 30 people in it, a
collection of lawyers, paralegals, uh
phone bangers, people sort of calling
borrowers. As we thought about taking
down the government's paper, they wanted
to understand how we were doing that
servicing and how we were sort of
enforcing
if that was necessary, and what our
thoughts were about ultimate resolution.
When we got deeper in, so we ultimately
became by far the largest lender in the
space, by far the largest participant.
Give us a sense of scope of that, like
the number of medallions, or like what's
what's like the right the dollars
deployed or something. Yeah, so uh it
was over $600 million deployed into the
space.
>> Wow. Uh
we had, you know, over 4,000 individual
assets uh on the balance sheet. Out of
Out of 13,000 medallions? 13,587.
Big chunk of them. Now, you're the taxi
king of New York.
Hardly.
But uh I think one of the good pieces of
advice that we got um actually from uh
uh Risa Heller, who has a
runs a firm called Heller
Communications, who has advised us
throughout this. And uh Risa had come
out of Chuck Schumer's office, and you
know, has a sort of great connectivity
into the New York political scene
generally.
She said to me very early, you need to
go explain everything you're doing and
plan to do to every regulator and
politician that touches this or is
interested in this.
And so, we spent a lot of time going and
seeing individual
council members, um individual
regulators, went to the mayor's office.
We sort of laid out for them, look,
these are the problems we see.
This is what we think the solution set
looks like.
We think it's going to be difficult, but
we think the outcome looks like the
following. And by sort of being
transparent about what our plans were,
even though we weren't sort of
advertising ourselves or what we were
doing broadly, we were making sure that
the people who would be most interested
and the people who were going to have
the most political sensitivities to this
were informed and well informed.
So, by going out and and getting in
front of that, as we became large, um we
I would say had a very constructive
dialogue with um everybody in the
system.
I think the other thing that we did,
again, I think that has worked to our
benefit over time.
I described earlier there was this
contentiousness in the space.
Uh labor, operator, capital, nobody
really even talked to each other, much
much less liked talking to each other.
>> Right. As people figured out that
Marblegate was playing a larger and
larger role, one of the first things
that happened, um our offices are here
in Greenwich, Connecticut, we were
picketed by uh the Taxi Workers
Alliance, which is the de facto union
for the space. One of the things I I'm
most proud of is we had water and
sandwiches delivered to them. Uh it
upset my team, uh and I actually don't
even think the Taxi Workers Alliance
knows this, uh but I actually uh
you know, put on a baseball cap and a
t-shirt, and went out and marched with
them, and talked to the drivers, and
Showed them your license?
And said, grabbed a sign, and said, I
want to sort of understand Yeah, what's
going on? What what what's on your mind?
Like, what Tell me tell me what's Tell
me what you need. Tell me what's going
on. And look, what we ultimately did do
that across the table from each other in
a conference room, but the reality is
you get a sense of things by really
going and speaking with people and
understanding really what's driving
their decisions and how they really are
interacting with you or the problem that
they're facing.
>> Yeah. By spending time with drivers in
informal settings like that, but also
formal settings uh with the taxi workers
alliance and particularly with the
leadership of the taxi workers alliance.
Look, I found their concerns to be
completely valid and real. I thought
that the pressures they were facing were
obvious and unavoidable.
Um it was very clear to me that the
system was not working for them and in
order for the system to thrive, look,
again, they're my customer. I needed it
to work for them. And so we began a
really constructive uh conversation and
relationship with the taxi workers
alliance. Um I'm very happy to say and I
I I think the leadership of the taxi
workers alliance would agree, we
continue to have a very constructive,
productive, and partnership-like
relationship.
>> How do you think about that now? So you
you're X amount of dollars in you own
4,000 something odd medallions. Walk us
through the end of the story or at least
the current snapshot of the story.
Actually, just a few weeks ago, we took
our entire taxi operation public. Oh,
wow.
So it should have a very durable and
persistent cash flow that should be able
to be valued by the market. And I think
there's sort of some like pretty
exciting and compelling things that we
can do
in continuing to grow that operation,
add other services, other pieces of the
ecosystem in because the ecosystem does
work. Um it had been too disaggregated.
There were too many people taking a
profit margin out of it. The reality is
we needed needed to be much more
efficient. We needed to be much more
cost constrained. We needed to be much
more sort of operationally focused on
efficiency and delivering to the
customer.
Right? The customer wasn't getting
enough value out of the relationship.
The only way you can give that customer
more value is if somebody else gets less
value. And the only way you can get sort
of squeeze those margins through
consolidations and efficiency. So that's
where this market ultimately goes. We're
I think the obvious sort of candidate to
do it.
>> Why take it public instead of instead of
sell it to some huge, you know, private
equity firm or something else? I think
there is
um there is legitimate concern about
what the shape of this market looks like
as we go into things like autonomous
vehicles. I think it
What does What does the future hold? Um
I think the sort of simpletons answer to
that is oh, well, you can't fight
technology and
the reality is um while I think
autonomous vehicles pose a real threat
to the livelihood of the individual
driver, when I separate driver from
asset,
and I think about what are New York
City's interests,
um
I think the medallion has, again,
persistency to it. Look, the medallion
system was introduced in the 1930s by
Fiorello LaGuardia,
uh the famous mayor at the time,
under what was called the Haas Act.
Because
in the sort of days af- during and after
the depression, New York City's streets
get super clogged because people were
out of work and they would get in their
car and drive people around as a
service.
LaGuardia looked at the system and said,
"This is terrible. Nobody can get
around. We need to shrink congestion,
get cars off the street so that the city
can operate." They introduced the
medallion system.
Look, that basic intuition, that basic
imperative hasn't changed.
In the world of autonomous, actually, I
think it accelerates in some ways.
You know, you and I are sitting in
Greenwich, Connecticut while we were
doing this interview in a fully
autonomous world, theoretically, we
could sit down and send our cars to do a
little work in New York while we were
doing this. They'd be back by a certain
time.
That's not great for New York City's
operation.
I would also say that, you know, people
with like less scruples might say,
"Go down to New York City and work, but
don't take any rides, you know, north of
125th Street."
Things that would just be absolutely
repugnant operationally, but also in
strict violation of New York City's
operating rules around taxis and how
rides can be taken and
and serviced.
So I think the city has an ongoing
invested interest in regulating the
system. The
the method of that regulation is the
medallion.
I also think, look, there is a sort of
true moral imperative to the city
persisting around the medallion system.
By far, look, we're large participants
in the space, but the largest set of
owners in the space continue to be
individuals that own medallions.
So the city,
and we can talk a little bit about this,
we cut a unbelievably forward-looking
deal with New York City to protect
individual operators.
The city has essentially invested a huge
amount of money in protecting those
drivers and their livelihood and the
capital that they've put into the
system.
If you were to completely displace that
capital,
it would obviate all the work and
investment that the city has done. I
don't think the city has a real interest
in doing that.
And
while autonomous will probably someday
displace the driver
and therefore displace their earnings
power,
you can swap that earnings power for the
ability to contribute capital. Right? So
the medallion becomes a capital asset
that they contribute into the system and
they can cut an individual economic
relationship with whatever autonomous
operator is in the system at that time.
If you look back on this relative to
everything else you've done in
investing, how good of an investment
would you say this was? Excellent. Why?
Is is that an IRR? Is it a risk-adjusted
thing? Like how do you measure it? So we
do think about risk-adjusted returns.
The companies and assets that we invest
in have lots of I mean, they're
distressed, right? Like they we don't
I would say to our investors, we don't
have the benefit of looking at opening
up the paper and saying, "Well, you
know, I think this Google thing's got
legs.
Let's let's put some capital in it."
We're looking at problems.
The problems that we end up chasing as
investors are problems we think we can
solve. We think that there are
structural fixes. We think there are
operational fixes. But importantly, they
are fixes that we think we can tackle.
These are challenged businesses.
The risk is real.
And so
when we insert ourselves into a company
or a collection of assets and we use the
rights and remedies that are afforded
us,
we're both using those rights and
remedies to drive value, but also
contain risk. And you have to work on
sort of both legs of that. And so it is
risk-adjusted return. What are the big
investing lessons that you take away
from this specific story that you feel
are like generalizable to what makes
great investments of this type possible?
So distressed assets,
you said it earlier and it's a line we
use all the time. It's a full contact
sport. You have to be willing to engage.
If you're
investing in distressed assets and you
are not taking an active role in both
the financial and operational
restructuring, you're just taking sort
of weird and unquantifiable risk
that you are not participating in. I
would argue it's almost like investment
malpractice to invest in a distressed
asset not taking an active operational
role in addition to the financial
restructuring role. Yeah, it's an
incredible it's an incredible story, one
of my favorite investing stories. Like
probably no one's ever thought of the
New York City medallions as like an
asset class or something.
I'm curious how you would describe the
key components aside from the steak
dinners of interfacing well with banks.
Like if that's the channel through which
you find everything and that they're
motivated by regulation, regulation,
regulation,
what is it like? Like what sorts of
things do you see? How do you know what
to dig in on? What makes for good
relationships with with that key
counterparty of yours?
Well, a good relationship with anybody
is about respecting their needs and
constraints.
>> Yeah. And you know, one of the things
that I think we're really good at is
understanding the needs and constraints
of our counterparty, whether they're a
bank,
a borrower, a sponsor,
a taxi driver, anyone. We spend a lot of
time thinking about the other guys'
needs.
You know, I tell everybody I'm going to
tell my kids, it's easy to know what you
want. You look in the mirror and tell it
to yourself every morning.
The real
exercise, the real effort has to be
focused on understanding the other
person.
And that understanding can come both
from conversation and and look, that's a
easy and direct way. I think it's an
important way. You have always have to
put boots on the ground. You know, lots
of the investments that we've made, the
management teams have said, "Well,
you're the first lender ever to show up
and see the facility." Crazy. Crazy.
Uh so we spend a lot of time just
getting to understand how a counterparty
is thinking.
Again, we also spend a lot of time
looking at data
because people have an intuition about
what they want, what they need. Data
sometimes says something different.
Now, there are times where we want to
share that data with somebody to help
them understand their own needs. There
are other times maybe we want to keep
that data to ourself in a negotiation.
But we're looking at all dimensions of
how to inform ourselves about what the
other person's needs are. Um understand
what their real hard constraints are.
And one of the things that um I
every time I deal with somebody, I try
to guarantee them is you tell me
you've got a hard constraint and we can
understand that that is true, that you
have that hard constraint. We're going
to respect it in the negotiation.
You have to
you
Any negotiation, any resolution can't be
a zero-sum game. It has to be that
somebody has to
get both sides have to get something out
of it. By the way, also when we're
selling assets, um
you have to leave something in for the
next
owner. Um if you try to extract all the
value that they're going to get, well,
then they don't want to do the deal.
>> Right. Trying to understand what the
other guy needs is a huge portion of
what we do. You've done a lot of
negotiation um, in in
interesting, unique circumstances, often
and as you pointed out in very hard
circumstances for people around the
table. Any other like ironclad
principles of negotiation apart from the
one that you just laid out that you sort
of live by? You know that saying um, you
know, I learned everything I need to
know in kindergarten? Yeah. Uh, that's
really true. Treat other people with
dignity, treat them with respect, be
honest, be as transparent as the
situation demands, right? So, you don't
have to show all of your cards. You are
playing poker to some degree, but you
want to deal with people on a heads-up
and honest basis. Uh, you also want to
operate on a
reasonable pace. And
pace is an important part of any deal
discussion.
People get an intuitive sense whether or
not there's something to do just by how
you're engaging with them or how they're
engaging with you.
So, uh, that doesn't mean you need to
hurry to things. Um,
but if you're not sort of moving things
along,
people get anxious.
>> Time kills deals. Time kills deals.
>> Yeah. I'd love to talk about other types
of transactions that Marble Gate will
engage with. We were talking earlier
about an example with the federal
government of some credits that you were
buying up. And the reason I like this
example which you could tell briefly is
understanding why the opportunity can
exist. Like Like very often when
something sounds too good to be true,
you start wondering well, like why why
am I so lucky that I can get such a
great risk-adjusted return. So, maybe
use that example as one where there is
an incredible risk-adjusted return that
you can walk through. But but also like
the very keenly the reasons why it's
possible in the first place when like
usually there's smart people like you
looking for places to earn a great
return. And yet it's still available.
We've been buying something called the
employee retention tax credit. And so
now this is a
like uh, an opportunity that comes out
of the CARES Act. Everybody's seen these
commercials that ran almost
every
commercial break on every channel at one
point. Get $26,000 per employee payroll
tax refund.
Because uh, the policy imperative at the
time was get as much money into the
system as they possibly could.
Now,
the problem is like the the federal
government is a big place. Uh, the IRS
is overburdened already. Um,
and there's lots of changes in the IRS,
lots of new agents. Now, a lot of agents
coming out. Uh, they're charged with
covering a lot of territory with not a
lot of resources.
So, um, they got foisted on them this
new thing where they were
there was a separate filing that had to
be done by companies. The language of
um,
the legislation which passed under the
CARES Act is that a company who um, had
either a 20% decline in their revenue
during the measurement period or had
been substantially impacted by a
government order.
By the way, not a federal government
order, a government order. So, state,
local, anything
uh, qualified.
That's really loose language. Um, I
think in if the
like authors of that had opportunity to
go back and rethink it, they might have.
And there's been a couple of attempts
to. Problem is getting anything done in
Washington's hard these days.
So, it is the law that's on the books.
Um,
companies uh, started to apply for
this. It is a separate filing. Uh, it is
a paper filing. It requires you to go
get, you know, some sign-off from your
accounting firm or your auditors.
You have to, if you're going to do it
responsibly, you need to put together a
package that sort of explains, should
you be asked, um, what why your claim is
valid. So, it's a fair amount of work.
And then uh, the government was really
slow in processing it. Again, we have an
overburdened IRS and an overburdened,
you know, number of people that are
working there. So, processing was just
slow.
I think when the government did this,
um, we've heard some estimates that say
they anticipated it to be a $50 billion
program.
Um, about a year in, they had paid out
$200 billion. Holy cow.
That was a year ago.
So, the numbers are
unbelievable. Again, it's probably a
poorly written law.
So, uh, we started going out to um,
companies uh, to
uh, tax preparation firms, uh, people
who deal in tax credits, uh, law firms,
payroll processing firms and saying to
them,
"Look, we'll buy those credits from
people. Uh, now the reality is it's not
a credit, it is a transfer payment. The
government sends you a check."
It took us a while, took us several
months to design that system. Uh, it's
complicated. There's a lot of paper to
process. It's just so much manual labor
required.
Um, and so we started processing uh,
credits looking at individual uh,
companies and who wanted to sell us
their claim. Now, we passed on huge
numbers of them. Uh, particularly
because at the beginning it was pretty
loosely written law and we said, "We
will kind of want to be Caesar's wife in
our underwriting here to make sure that
we're well within what we believe is
reasonable." Our standard uh, was much
tougher than what the government
ultimately had. So, we were buying
credits that we felt really, really good
about um, that would be
non-controversial and would get paid.
Um, we were paying about 85, 86 cents on
the dollar.
One of the provisions of the law was
that um,
from when you filed, the government owed
you an interest rate
uh, while you waited for the refund.
That was 6 or 7%. So,
we were also just sort of earning a
natural rate on the capital provided.
Um, as a safety mechanism, we also sort
of built a system that allowed us to put
back uh, claims should they become
problematic with the government, should
they be disallowed or there be a, you
know, some sort of deficiency found. Um,
and if we were able to put back, the
company owed us our capital back plus a
rate.
So, you might ask yourself, well, why
were why were people it was Yeah, it's
like the US government counterparty
risk.
>> would you do this? Goes back to what we
were saying earlier about the K-shaped
economy. Most of our sellers, if not all
of our sellers, are in the middle
market.
>> Yeah. Uh, all of them capital
constrained, earnings power constrained,
and they they saw this asset that they
could monetize.
And we were, you know, relatively easy
to work with, I would say. We tried to
process things pretty quickly. We could
have an answer turned around and
documents done within
2 to 3 weeks. I know you it's kind of a
similar order of magnitude of like
capital deployed as what we talked about
with the taxis.
That's a big that's a big amount of
capital to go in to get I think it's
like, you know, a minimum return-ish of
12%, a lot higher if if everything goes
as you think it's going to go. Um,
counterparties the US government. Like
this is very different than taxi
medallions. Like taxi medallions at the
time, of course, you tell this narrative
was like, "Oh god." Whereas like the US
government, I don't know, probably going
to pay. Why was this available? Like why
why didn't Apollo do this? Or why didn't
some big enterprise why didn't Baupost
distressed Baupost guys do this? Like
what what makes it so that this was
available given that it was a big amount
of money and sort of like what seems
like a no-brainer type of return. Yeah,
like what what stopped why is this
possible? Well, look, I A, um, I think
we do a pretty good job looking in nooks
and crannies. Yeah. Seeing things first.
>> We want to be uh, detail-oriented
thinkers.
And I would also say um,
you know, all profits emanate from the
variant view. If you have the market
view, you get the market return. If you
want to generate an above-market or a
differentiated return stream, you have
to think in a differentiated way, have a
variant view, and prosecute your
investments in a variant fashion.
And so from, you know, going back to the
foundation story of Marble Gate, you
know, when Paul and I sat down, we said,
"Look, the world has a Howard Marks and
um, the world has a uh, Mark Rowan. The
world has a lot of things. Uh, what
doesn't it have? And in order to grow
our business, we've made sure to try to
do things that we thought were
interesting, unique. The thing is, we
like the intellectual challenge. We like
to
think about things other people haven't
thought about. Years ago, we did um,
some investing in around Native American
gaming assets.
The
reality is that sits on sovereign
territory. How you restructure those is
super complicated. And how do you
generate a return that is sufficient?
And so we had to explore kind of new
space in order to find the pathway
through.
We like doing new. We like sort of
exploring ideas, bringing new
technology, interesting ways to look at
things and access that value uh, to bear
in our investing style. It keeps it
interesting.
What is the hardest thing that you've
ever had to pull off as part of Marble
Gate's entire story? That's a great
question.
You look, we're constantly seeking new
challenge. Um,
when we were, you know, starting, um, it
was, you know, Paul and I and uh, an
analyst and our CFO.
Um, we couldn't exercise a huge amount
of control. We had $50 million in assets
under management. Uh, it was the, you
know,
late winter of 2009. The world was
falling apart.
Um,
you know, the strategy that we prosecute
today is the same strategy that we
prosecuted then. We just do it on a
slightly larger scale.
Um, in those days, uh, we had to be
clever. We had to outthink the
competition in order to make an impact.
And so, we've always we've maintained
that framework of thinking.
We also, in those days, um locked up
capital was not available. So, we
started our business in an open-ended
structure. Now, it had long commitment
terms, but it was essentially it was at
its core an evergreen structure. And so,
it demanded that we have this discipline
of how are we going to get that capital
back to people.
And that process of, you know, getting
capital allocated into a distressed
situation and then finding the
resolution mechanism that brings it home
is sort of built into the DNA of the
firm. It's how we think about investing
generally.
Now, the interesting thing about
distress is um
you have to use capital to get capital
back. Um it there's this cycle of
capital, capital contribution,
resolution that cycles. And so, you're
always thinking about how am I going to
drive this investment and and create
something else out of it, then I'm going
to create something else out of that,
and you create this sort of daisy chain
of opportunities. One thing leads to
another.
And so, if you had to isolate like the
most difficult workout or the thing that
like kept you up the most at night, is
there one or is it always there's just
always a component of that? You know,
one of the things that my partner Paul
always says is every single investment
is both a complicated business problem
and a human drama.
And, you know, each one of our
investments has had some you know,
greater or lesser mix of those two
things. Look, to the individual in these
situations we we do this for a living
and we've done it essentially our entire
careers. Uh it is familiar to us. We
understand how things are going to work
out, how they don't work out. We're
comfortable with the level of ambiguity
and uncertainty that other people
generally are not.
And so, um
each one of these are the most difficult
thing that the other people in are ever
going to go through.
And again, you got to be sensitive to
that reality. It goes to their
decision-making. It goes to um
how they enter engage with you, how they
engage with the business or the assets.
And so,
each situation is difficult it's
difficult in its own way because that
human drama tends to be the unknowable
thing as you're walking into a
situation. I'm curious since it's people
going through the hardest thing they've
ever gone through, how often that spills
over onto you? Like, how often do you do
you feel like they believe you're the
villain in the story and how do you deal
That would seem very stressful to me.
Do you just become stoic about it? Does
it happen often? Or talk about that part
of this whole I mean, we are the avatar
of people's frustrations.
Um and look, it's not I don't I don't
sort of love it. It's not I don't wake
up Nobody Nobody I'm not excited about
this.
>> Yeah, nobody
You know, there's this saying um
that I repeat often, nobody finds
distress, distress finds you. Yeah. And
and that's true in business, it's true
as an investor. Nobody sort of graduates
from college and it's like, you know,
I'm going to go into companies and be
reviled by management and argued with by
sponsors and, you know, yelled at by
banks. It's not something that people
sort of like go into with that ambition.
Yeah. It tends to find people and it
self-selects people.
Like, I think the
the way we deal with it is again, back
to first principles. Deal with people
with dignity, with respect, compassion
for the reality that they exist in,
compassion for the fact that this is the
hardest thing they're ever going to go
through. Uh and that they don't like
this. It's upsetting to them. It's
having an impact on their home life, on
their kids. It often times destroyed
their life savings. It's a big deal for
people. And so, they are going to be
angry at you. They are going to be angry
at the decisions, the hard decisions
that you're making on behalf of those
assets or that company.
Uh but I always say, look, we're we're
the eat your vegetables guys.
We're not doing this because we have
some sort of personal animus to you. I
never met most of the people that we
deal with, but we are doing what's in
the best interest of the asset and what
we believe is in the best interest of
generating a durable
return and a durable business.
What motivates you? Like, what is what
are like if you just if I kept asking
that question like eight layers deep,
where would I get?
>> question. Look, I I like the
problem-solving of it. Um
it it you know,
my partner Paul sometimes has said that
my superpower is being able to find that
intersection of needs and wants in a
multi-party negotiation. I just love
that problem-solving. I like sort of
finding a way through. I like um
taking things that are uh undervalued,
misunderstood, and getting them back
into a condition where they can be again
durable, profitable, and a success.
If I was to go see your whole life story
in a movie or something, um let's say
like pre-college or something
early part of your life, and isolate the
stories or the things that were most
formative, that most like shaped who you
are, what what are those things? Hands
down. It's not a thing I talk a lot
about, but my father passed away when I
was very young. How old were you? About
11 years old. Uh he and I were super
super close. Um we did everything
together including
we uh
um we used to
sit together and go over the Wall Street
Journal stock pages every day. We
tracked certain stocks. We invested
together even though I was really young.
He sort of brought it to a level that I
could understand. My dad was an
immigrant to the country. Um loved the
American system, loved that his son was
an American, loved that to participate
in American commerce. He
was an entrepreneur. Um and and dealt
with um
unions and dealt with large capital
projects and
used to bring me to
to meetings he would have. He He would
come to New York on business. He would
bring me go to I grew up in a little
town in Southeast Texas. We would go to
Dallas and he'd
wear a suit and we would He'd sit me in
the corner and I would just listen.
Uh so, from really early ages, we spent
a lot of time together. Uh so, when he
passed away,
he had a heart attack. We were on a Boy
Scout campout.
And that was a obviously a devastating
time and a devastating moment.
And, you know, it shaped who I am and it
shaped who my sister is. It completely
reshaped my mom's life and sort of how
she saw herself and what her role was.
It it changed our whole trajectory. It
also, by the way, showed
the colors of people around us. So,
there were people who I would say we
were um
uh
we thought were good friends and close
and reliable counterparties.
And at the moment of truth, um you know,
people don't like messes. They don't
like difficult situations and we saw
people retreat. And I took a lot away
from that. Uh at the same time, we also
saw people of uh real character lean in.
Uh people who to this day I consider
like family because they just
embraced us
and took care of us. People who have
become entrepreneurs, who have shaped
the world around them. Very strangely,
the most common pattern is someone that
lost their father at a young age. So
many of my mentors have this pattern.
And so, I'm very interested in it
because it's a tragic thing
which nonetheless comes to define and
shape people in a very unique way. And
the common pattern that I see is on the
other side of it, this tremendous amount
of agency.
That it's sort of like
almost like the person wakes up in that
moment and realizes like, oh, it like
I need to I need to be agentic. I need
to like shape the thing like I need to
take care of business. Yeah. And I'm
curious if you had that experience
coming out of that
tough time and and any other reflections
you have on agency and the importance of
agency in life. So, my mom grew up in
Southeast Texas. For a while as a child,
she had lived in the Middle East in
Baghdad. Interestingly, she when uh
when the king was overthrown, she and a
lot of the American families were taken
hostage. It's a super fascinating story.
Um she and her mother and brothers while
the men were forced to work by the
rebels.
So, um
my mom had had this really interesting
life, but had married my father at a
pretty young age.
And my father had a big personality and
himself had um had a sort of
interesting, colorful life.
And um
so, when he passed away, you know, she
was 35 years old and had, you know,
these two young kids. My sister's 7
years younger than me, so she was really
a baby. You know, my mom really pushed
us to take control of things and to make
decisions on our own and get out and
challenge ourselves and drive ourselves
to create our own outcomes and um find
our own path. Uh she really pushed us
I I love my hometown. I love the
community I grew up in. It was like
super nurturing and really like a lovely
childhood and always other than the one
we discussed, great people. But she
really pushed us to leave. She said, you
know, I want you to go out into the
world and find your own way.
Um and and look, I I come from a good
tradition of that. My
uh
grandfather uh when he was just after
bar mitzvah age had
um was living in what is now Ukraine.
Um
It was
part of uh Romania then. But he um he
and his oldest brother walked down to uh
the Black Sea, caught a boat, ended up
in Curacao,
and uh would make enough money to bring
each brother, and there were five
brothers total, um over. They moved
their parents into mandatory Palestine.
Uh and then
uh ultimately they'd go back for
a shidduch for the arranged marriage,
and as there were
ultimately not a lot of uh Jewish girls
running around in Latin America in those
days.
And he uh had gone to Eretz Israel to
get married. My father was born there,
but then raised in Latin America, came
to this country
for education. Uh couldn't get a visa.
There were constraints on uh Jewish
immigration in those days.
And so um went back to Venezuela.
Had met a guy here in the United States
uh that he uh had gotten to be pretty
friendly with, and uh they sort of had
this this uh correspondence back and
forth about how to start a business and
what would they do.
And ultimately uh my father after
several years was able to come back to
the United States, and he and his
business partner um went to my hometown,
uh Beaumont, Texas, and started uh their
first business was a precast concrete
business.
And they grew that and they grew that
into a number of other businesses that
ultimately service the oil industry.
I mean, this is like uh the stuff of the
classic American dream and story, 100%.
To map that back onto where we started
with the K-shaped economy,
to give us your just like sense, like
your state of things and how you feel
about it, having been, you know, a
person produced by one of these amazing
stories, and then a group of people that
came here for that story, and and have
challenges. Like I I just love your kind
of closing reflections on that. America
is like the greatest system that has
ever existed. Um it is the greatest
economy, it's the greatest um economic
system, greatest political system that
has ever existed. But countries, like
companies, are delicate.
They're fragile.
They require care and feeding. They
require respect. They require
engagement. They're subject to abuse.
And so uh look, I don't like what I see
in the K-shaped economy.
Uh I don't think that it's great that we
have this growing divide between the
haves and the have-nots. I think that
the magic of America is that anyone can
make it, my father included.
Um and I think that it is
lost his father at an early age could
end up in Greenwich, Connecticut,
sitting across from you talking about
the things we're talking about. I mean,
that's a really remarkable opportunity
that doesn't exist anywhere else in the
world. I mean, it really doesn't. My
father um who came to this country
in the 1950s,
uh in order for him to be able to come
back uh
as the next to whoever,
uh we need to have a system that works
for everybody. We need to have a system
that provides for opportunity and
access. It has to be a system where you
can work hard and earn a good living,
but you can also take entrepreneurial
risk and be rewarded for it. I think the
that when we design a system or allow a
system to calcify such that the haves
will perpetually have and the have-nots
will perpetually not have, uh that's a
system that is
we stand at a moment in time where we
have some hard decisions to make.
And it's not by the way, this is not a
political comment on any individual
party or person or any of that. It's
more of philosophical view on where
America is and where the system is. I
think we as a system, we as a country,
have to have a lot of grace for each
other and a desire to see not just the
guy in the mirror win, but the neighbor.
I mean, we need to see our neighbors
win. We need to make sure that the
people who um make America great
enjoy its prosperity. Is there anything
about the world and how it works on the
investing side that we haven't talked
about that you think is most surprising
or interesting?
Your style of investing is very
different from the style I I normally
feature here. I think there's lots of
interesting ways that people are
investing. I'm sort of always interested
in how, you know, friends, colleagues,
uh people I meet are allocating capital,
how they're thinking about things.
I would say, like I sense a lot of
laziness out there. I think there's a
lot of wash, rinse, repeat. Um we do it
this way because we do it this way, or
um you know, we're investing to model,
or
it just the only way that I can describe
it is lazy.
Uh that
A, I think is intellectually bankrupt,
but I also think it's worrisome because
when we go on to autopilot,
things don't tend to work out. And and I
feel like large portions of the
investing world are now on autopilot.
Where do you see that most acutely? Big
parts of the credit market. The primary
vehicle for credit creation in corporate
credit over the past 10, 15 years has
been uh the CLO.
So, CLOs are a magical device. Just
describe them for anyone that doesn't
know what it what that means.
Collateralized loan obligations. So, uh
this is the um these are a package of
loans that are um assembled as a group
of assets, and then against those assets
there is a stack of liabilities that are
sold with equity underneath.
So, um an individual investor will put
up the equity, and then a number of
lenders will uh provide stacked layers
of capital, so orders of priority, which
allow
the purchase of that portfolio of
assets.
Now, the investing uh relies primarily
on diversification and
over-collateralization as its method of
risk control.
There is this sort of pretend system
that's going on at the moment where
there are analysts um looking at each
individual credit, and I don't want to
disparage the entire CLO industry. There
are some unbelievably good CLO managers
out there. They're all smart and
sophisticated and thinking very hard
about how they are
managing those pools of assets.
But there are a lot that are not. Um and
so you're getting this laziness that's
happening.
I would also say one of the things I
don't like that's happening out there is
um the productization of investment
decisions.
So, there's a lot of outsourcing of
critical thinking
because I can go to this person that can
that'll make this decision for me, and
I'll go to this person who will make
that decision for me. And so, again,
we're bankrupting the decision-making
process, the the investor, that's even
what you want to call them, becomes more
of a general contractor, and they're not
actually doing anything and I don't
think adding a whole lot of value other
than
choosing other people
to do the thinking,
who by the way
um are misaligned because those folks
are motivated by a stream of fees rather
than an investment outcome.
And so, I think the system I don't love
what is happening in the CLO system. I
think that there's a big opportunity to
be much more active and engaged in that.
Now, it probably means that you can't be
100 billion dollars of CLO capital
thinking like that.
That being said, there
people are going to do 100 billion
dollars of CLO that will do just fine
under the system that exists. So, I
don't disparage everything that is
happening, but I do think that there is
an opportunity to be much more actively
engaged in that portion of the market.
>> So, any other commentary on private
credit and private credit markets in
general, and then also on equities? You
have such a unique vantage point, so
just like big picture view on those two
big spaces. Private credit in particular
is a is a really interesting space. Um
you know, so in 2011 uh the federal
government issued an update on what is
called the guidelines on leveraged
lending. And that is the sort of
perspective on the rules out of the
center, right? Because we do bank
regulation in a really interesting way
in this country. So, policy is set at
the center. Primary policy makers are
the Fed, the FDIC, and the OCC.
Um and they issue guidance. Now, we have
we have
uh individual and independent Federal
Reserve banks around the country that
apply the guidance.
So, it's up to the individual Fed
regions and Fed presidents and boards
and employees as to how that uh
regulation is applied. Policy set at the
middle. And the guidelines on leveraged
lending that were issued in 2011 created
the dynamic that pushed credit out more
leveraged credit out of the banking
system because after the financial
crisis, the federal government adopted,
correctly I think, the perspective that
they wear the ultimate risk in the
banking system. And so, you know, he who
wears the risk makes the rules. Um
they said, "Look, we're wearing this
risk. We don't want, you know, anything
above
X leverage in the system.
So, we want that out." That allowed the
private credit market, which has always
been there, but really to flourish in
the aftermath of the financial crisis.
Where there's an a and there's been an
immense amount of capital that has gone
into the space.
You know,
where there is
over allocation, there will be mistakes,
and I think we see those mistakes
rearing their head today.
According to Fitch, about 82% of the
private credit market exists in the
single B- minus and lower credit credit
quality space.
Look, we have 40 years of data that
tells us how various credit quality
equivalents perform.
Triple Cs, for instance, default at
about a 3-year 30% cumulative default
rate.
So,
you know, the largest portion of private
credit, according to Fitch,
is in triple C equivalent.
Now,
show me a private credit manager who
reports something north of a 1 and 1/2
percent default rate. How's that happen?
Well, one of two things is true. Either,
you know, in the aftermath of the great
financial crisis, we have
some private credit managers have
invented a new way to underwrite credit,
which avoids all losses, risks, and
defaults,
or they are misleading you about what
the actual default rate is. And how do
they do that? Well, defaults are the
most easily manipulated statistic in the
world. A default doesn't exist unless I,
the lender, call it.
And so, if I don't want defaults in my
portfolio, I simply don't call them.
Or So, I always tell people don't ask
the default rate of a private credit.
Ask the waiver rate. Ask the amendment
rate. How much are they having to put
hands on their credit to reorient the
documents to fit the reality of the
company they're
operating in.
Look, we have some also some evidence in
the BDC market. The BDC markets of
business development corporations are
essentially public direct lenders, and
there's a instrument or a device in
credit called PIK debt. The sort of
formal name is payment in kind. So,
rather than pay you a coupon, I will pay
you more debt.
Now,
we oftentimes say
PIK means payment isn't coming.
Because when you look at the data, what
you see is when there's a lot of PIK in
a particular instrument, typically that
company is going to default, and you
ultimately will not recover that PIK
debt.
So,
it's a bit of a mirage that
individual
loan officers or credit committees will
use to disguise maybe a less than
let's say fullsome credit decision.
Or, by the way, there are legitimate
uses for it, but if a company can't pay
you a cash coupon, you are taking some
amount of equity risk. So, the larger
the portion of PIK debt in a particular
instrument, the more credit more equity
risk you're taking in that investment.
Pretty straightforward.
We see some portfolios in the BDC market
that have 17, 18%
PIK debt.
I mean,
they're not they're no longer lenders at
that point. They're taking massive
amounts of equity risk
in companies that are probably, again,
they exist mostly in that middle market
space. So, they're under pressure, they
start from more difficult position with,
you know, declining margins, declining
earnings power.
It's not a great setup.
I don't see great things ahead for large
portions of the private credit market.
Now, that being said, there are some
private credit firms that are
spectacular. I mean, superior. That list
is pretty straightforward.
You know, firms like Ares or let's say
Golub are, you know,
stellar at what they do, and they have
great credit cultures, they have really
complete teams that deal with
underwriting and workouts should they
get to that.
The private credit universe
used to be a direct origination
business.
There is some direct origination that
goes on in private credit today, but
it's largely a brokered market,
which is a kind of a dirty little secret
people don't like to talk about.
You know, the Houlihans or the Lincolns
are doing a huge amount of sort of
placement of private credit. So,
naturally, what are they doing? They're
going to the biggest, best, most
well-known lenders first.
Ares, Golub, etc.
If they pass, then they go to the next
cadre, and the next cadre, and the next
cadre. So, there's a real tiering in
terms of access. The biggest, best-known
firms do have the best portfolios
because they get first choice, and they
have the most complete access to
capital, and the best teams, etc.
So, I think there is there's great
things happening in private credit. I
think there are some scary things
happening in private credit. What's your
commentary on private equity, which is a
key
counterpart to that? I love those guys.
That's my manufacturing division.
Look, like everything, there are some
people who are doing like really
interesting, really compelling things.
The firms that I like
are
fundamentally value-based investors.
They do what I would call scratch and
dent type private equity. So, they're
buying, you know, car valves or, you
know, assets that are a little unloved
or difficult in some way, and then
really applying force to them. But I
think, just like in our business, if
you're just a financial investor,
you're in some way a traitor.
If you are bringing to bear real
resources to drive the company's
operations forward, or to reimagine how
that business operates,
that I think is really interesting and
really value-added, and there's going to
be a future
for that kind of investing in that style
of private equity.
I think the sort of standard, you know,
group of great deal makers who knows
some allocators or rich families that
will back them in buying companies, but
they don't actually
do anything other than buy the company
and show up for board meetings,
I think those firms are troubled. I
don't think they add a lot of value, and
they probably don't have much of a
future.
Looking to the future, what do you most
hope you get to do more of that Marble
Gate becomes, where will you spend your
time and attention based on your
interest right now?
We sit at a really interesting moment in
asset management. I think that what we
do in our business in our investing is
acquire assets that are troubled,
reimagine what they could and should be,
and then apply force to make that
happen.
I think we have to look at our own
business that same way.
I think we're at this moment in the
asset management space where people are
asking hard questions, the right
questions about who's adding what value,
and how should that value be
compensated, and
what are the
collections of
services that asset managers should be
providing to their customers. How should
we think about our relationships with
our customers? Are is it really a
customer relationship, or should it more
of a partnership relationship? I think
that partnership model is the model
going forward. I also think that we have
to think about where we're accessing
capital. Look, there's a big push to go
into the retail channel.
I can make and I buy the argument that
large portions of the retail market are
under allocated into private markets.
Uh
I think that there are large portions of
the retail market that are probably not
super well equipped to have that have a
ton of exposure.
We're going to go bump in the night
trying to figure out where those lines
exist. There are going to be people will
make mistakes.
You know, investors will make mistakes.
Um
asset management firms will have false
starts, but I think there are there's
product design opportunity that is
exciting. There are some things that
have, you know, gotten a lot of heat.
Interval funds are getting a lot of
attention. I think there are some
strengths and some weaknesses to that.
I think that, you know, everything
that's happening in the insurance space
is super interesting. I think there's
lots of ways to think about that. The
the sort of annuity-driven investing is
super interesting, and it serves a real
need and opportunity. I think there are
other composition of insurance assets
out there that are also interesting,
that are probably less well explored at
the moment.
So, I think there's a lot that's going
to happen.
The world of asset management that I
grew up in is not going to be the one
that I exist in going forward.
We're undergoing a lot of change, and I
think people who embrace that change are
going to do really well. are going to
succeed. And the people who sort of live
a comfortable life and are sort of happy
to, you know, play golf a couple of days
a week, and
you know, go have big expensive lunches,
that's probably not going to be the
successful model going forward. That has
never been your approach. You're one of
the more unique investors that I know. I
love talking about investing. I think
what you do is
it's just different, and obviously it
works. Proof is in the pudding. I think
you know my traditional closing question
for everybody. What's the kindest thing
that anyone's ever done for you? Right
after my father passed away,
this
family that I still consider, you know,
very dear to me.
My mom was overwhelmed, and they used to
I'm going to tear up. They can't have
had it actually. They uh
They would take me to their house for
breakfast every morning, and then drive
me to school.
And they really embraced me,
and provided a lot of like stability to
me at a really trying time.
There were other families that did the
same thing. That was a really, really
tough moment. And uh they leaned in. I
try to think about what I can do to pay
forward that kindness.
Beautiful closing story. Andrew, thanks
so much for your time. Thank you.